**Tags:** #_Done 
#Linux  #ToLink 
- - -
# Lesson 1
# Guided Exercises
##### 1. What extended regular expression would match any email address, like info@example.org?
- R: grep -E "\S+@\S+\.\S+"
##### 2. What extended regular expression would only match any IPv4 address in the standard dotted- quad format, like 192.168.15.1?
- R:  grep -E "[0-9]{1,3}\.[0-9]{1,3}\.[0-9]{1,3}\.[0-9]{1,3}"
##### 3. How can the grep command be used to list the contents of file /etc/services, discarding all comments (lines starting with #)?
- R: grep -v ^# /etc/services
##### 4. The file domains.txt contains a list of domain names, one per line. How would the egrep command be used to list only .org or .com domains?
- R: grep -E ".org$|.com$" domains.txt

# Explorational Exercises
##### 1. From the current directory, how would the find command use an extended regular expression to search for all files not containing a standard file suffix (file names not ending in .txt or .c, for example)?
- R: find . -type f -regextype egrep -not -regex '.*\.[[:alnum:]]{1,}$'
##### 2. Command less is the default paginator for displaying long text files in the shell environment. By typing /, a regular expression can be entered in the search prompt to jump to the first corresponding match. In order to stay in the current document position and only highlight the corresponding matches, what key combination should be entered at the search prompt?
- R: Pressing Ctrl + K before entering the search expression.
##### 3. In less, how would it be possible to filter the output so only lines which match a regular expression get displayed?
- R: con &
# Lesson2
##### 1. Filtering IPv4 from last Command Command last shows a listing of last logged in users, including their origin IPs. How would the egrep command be used to filter last output, showing only occurrences of an IPv4 address, discarding any additional information in the corresponding line?
- R:   last -i | egrep -o '[0-9]{1,3}\.[0-9]{1,3}\.[0-9]{1,3}\.[0-9]{1,3}'
##### 2. Grep with find -print0 What option should be given to grep in order to correctly filter the output generated by command find executed with option -print0?
- R:   find . -print0 | grep -z expression
##### 3. Sed Date Formatting Command uptime -s shows the last date when the system was powered on, as in 2019-08-05 20:13:22. What will be the result of command uptime -s | sed -e 's/(.*) (.*)/\1/'?
- R: sed: -e expression #1, char 15: invalid reference \1 on `s' command's RHS
##### 4. Grep Count Option What option should be given to grep so it counts matching lines instead of displaying them?
- R: grep -c
# Explorational Exercises
##### 1. HTML Body Extraction The basic structure of an HTML file starts with elements html, head and body, for example:
\<html>
\<head>
<title>News Site</title>
\</head>
\<body>
\<h1>Headline</h1>
\<p>Information of interest.</p>
\</body>
\</html>
Describe how addresses could be used in sed to display only the body element and its contents.
-R:   sed -n -e '/\<body>/,/<\/body>/p'
##### 2. HTML Tag Removal What sed expression will remove all tags from an HTML document, keeping only the rendered text?
- R: sed 's/<\[^>]*>//g' 
##### 3. OpenVPN Configuration Files with extension .ovpn are very popular to configure VPN clients as they contain not only the settings, but also the contents of keys and certificates for the client. These keys and certificates are originally in separate files, so they need to be copied into the .ovpn file. Given the following excerpt of a .ovpn template:
client
dev tun
remote 192.168.1.155 1194
<ca>
ca.crt
</ca>
<cert>
client.crt
</cert>
<key>
client.key
</key>
\<tls-auth>
ta.key
\</tls-auth>
Assuming files ca.crt, client.crt, client.key and ta.key are in the current directory,
how would the template configuration be modified by sed to replace each filename by its
content?
- R:   sed -r -e 's/(^[^.]*)\.(crt|key)$/cat \1.\2/e' < client.template > client.ovpn
- - - 
## ***Sources:***