**Tags:** #_Done 
#Linux  #ToLink 
- - -
# Guided Exercises
##### 1. What will the command below do?
```
getent group openldap
```
- R: It will read /etc/nsswitch.conf, lookup the openldap group from the sources listed, and
display information about it if it is found.
##### 2. What is the biggest difference between getent and the other tools covered, host and dig?
- R: getent looks up names using the resolver libraries, the others just query DNS. getent can be used to troubleshoot your /etc/nsswitch.conf and the configuration of name resolution libraries your system is configured to use. host and dig are used to lookup DNS records.
##### 3. Which option to dig and host is used to specify the type of record you wish to retrieve?
- R: -t
##### 4. Which of the following is a proper /etc/hosts entry?

| ::1 localhost       | X   |
| ------------------- | --- |
| localhost 127.0.0.1 |     |
##### 5. Which option to getent is used to specify which data source should be used to perform a lookup?
- R: -s
# Explorational Exercises
##### 1. If you were to edit the /etc/resolv.conf below with a text editor, what is likely to happen?
```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.20
```
- R:

| Action                                                         | Result |
| -------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ |
| The changes will be overwritten by NetworkManager              | X      |
| NetworkManager will update its configuration with your changes |        |
| Your changes won't affect the system                           |        |
| NetworkManager will be disabled                                |        |
##### 2. What does the following line in /etc/nsswitch.conf mean: hosts: files \[SUCCESS=continue] dns
- R:  Lookups for host names will check your /etc/hosts files first and then DNS. If an entry found is found in files and DNS, the entry in DNS will be used.
##### 3. Considering the following /etc/resolv.conf why isn’t the system resolving names through DNS?
```
search lpi.org
#nameserver fd00:ffff::1:53
#nameserver 10.0.1.53
```
- R: Both DNS servers are commented out and there is no DNS server running on the local host.
##### 4. What does the command dig +noall +answer +question lpi.org do?
- R: It looks up the A record for lpi.org and displays only the query and response.
##### 5. How can you override the defaults of dig without specifying them on the command line?
- R: You create a .digrc file in your home directory.

- - - 
## ***Sources:***