**Tags:** #_Done 
#Linux  #ToLink 
- - -
# Guided Exercises
##### 1. Imagine a program needs to create a single-use temporary file that will never be needed again after the program is closed. What would be the correct directory to create this file in?
- R:  /tmp
##### 2. Which is the temporary directory that must be cleared during the boot process?
- R: /run o /var/run
##### 3. Using find, search only the current directory for files that are writable by the user, have been modified in the last 10 days and are bigger than 4 GiB.
- R: find . -writable -mtime -10 -size +4G
##### 4. Using locate, find any files containing both the patterns report and either updated, update or updating on their names.
 - R: locate -A "report" "updat"
##### 5. How can you find where the manpage for ifconfig is stored?
 - R:  whereis -m ifconfig
##### 6. What variable needs to be added to /etc/updatedb.conf to make updatedb ignore ntfs filesystems?
 - R: PRUNEFS=ntfs
##### 7. A system administrator wishes to mount an internal disk (/dev/sdc1). According to the FHS, under which directory should this disk be mounted?
- R: /mnt
# Explorational Exercises
##### 1. When locate is used, the results are pulled from a database generated by updatedb. However this database can be outdated, causing locate to show files that no longer exist. How can you make locate show only existing files on its output?
 - R: -e
##### 2. Find any file on the current directory or subdirectories up to 2 levels down, excluding mounted filesystems, that contain the pattern Status or statute on their names.
 - R:  find . -maxdepth 3 -mount -iname "*statu*"
##### 3. Limiting the search to ext4 filesystems, find any files under /mnt that have at least execute permissions for the group, are readable for the current user and had any attribute changed in the last 2 hours.
- R: find /mnt -fstype ext4 -perm -410 -cmin -120
##### 4. Find empty files which were created more than 30 days ago and are at least two levels down from the current directory
- R:  find . -empty -mtime +30 -mindepth 3
##### 5. Consider that the users carol and john are part of the group mkt. Find on john's home directory any files that are also readable by carol.
- R: find /home/john -perm -040

- - - 
## ***Sources:***